So to catch up,
we've got the ability to open files,
we've got the ability to save files.
We just wanna make sure that we've got
the ability to know what file we're
currently working with, right?
So what I'm thinking that I'm gonna do
is kind of give myself two functions
called set current file and get current
file, like Revel in all of your work.
When last we met our heroes, us.
We had to build an open file, we have
really a save a file and export the HTML.
We just don't really have a great sense
of knowing what file we're currently
working with.
So we can do the natural and normal things
that we expect from a desktop application
in terms of like saving if you
already have a current file open.
Or if you've saved the file and
all the other little like OS level,
niceties that the various
operating systems provide us.
So I think for starters,
I'm gonna do a give myself two functions,
getCurrentFile and setCurrentFile.
And the getCurrentFile when I might just
take some of the more complicated code
that I had and that's a file and
be able to say like, We'd say,
let's say so filePath is a string.
browserWindow is a BrowserWindow,
makes this asynchronous.
And we'll have to say if
filePath give me that.
Actually, if currentfile.filepath,
we don't even really
need that argument there.
Make this one optional.
If there is currently
one that we know about,
give me that, otherwise,
Give me what we get back from the,
From the browser window.
There's no browser window.
Like, we could get back undefined.
So we've got the ability to get that kind.
When I might use that a little bit,
and then we've got setCurrentFile with
should take a filePath, which is a string,
and all we're gonna build this out
a little bit, but we'll just say,
currentFile.filepPath equals that.
Awesome, that's gonna kind of be the
initial like pieces that we build upon,
because there's a whole bunch
of stuff that we can do.
We saw before, we can add to
the title to show the current file,
we could set the representative
file on macOS, right?
We might choose to try to
like keep track of whether or
not there's changes and edits and
stuff along those lines.
And all of those pieces, in fact,
like, I'll decide what I
want to do here in a second.
So there's a bunch of stuff we will
do as we set the current file and
build it from there.
I might even just make this
default current file.
We'll find out as we go along.
So the first thing I wanna do is just
at least get that get current file
in here to just simplify
my code a little bit.
And so on the saveFile, we'll just say,
filePath = await getCurrentFile.
The browser window in there, so
like ideally I'll get the one stored,
if not I will get the browser window,
very similar to what we had before.
We'll have that there as well.
Cool, yeah, so we'll get it
there's current file path, we'll
get the current file path, otherwise,
we will return the browser window, great.
Everything moves along, and
then the setCurrentFile is upon saving it.
We can actually probably just do
that in the save file dialog for
now, which is await for that and
then, setCurrentFile, and
we can do file path and
I can do content as well.
While I'm in here,
I'll just have to adjust that one.
So do filePath to do content string.
So because we know the last
time that we saved,
it will be the content
that we had in this case.
Fix it right there.
Cool.
And then we also know
that when we open a file,
we have the file path and
the content as well.
So now that we have this set current file
abstraction, we can use it there too and
which will make it a lot easier to see
that everything works the way that
we expect.
So when we open a file, we'll have
the file path, we'll have the content.
So we'll also set current file to
file path and content as well, right?
So we have that in place,
it's just storing it in memory,
it doesn't really do a lot just yet, but
it gives us the ability to add
on to this and handle stuff.
So now whenever we save a file,
or whenever we open a file,
we are keeping track of what
the current file is, and
we can begin to put some of
those pieces in there as well.
The nice part is that
electron makes this very,
very, very simple for us.
Which is,
there are a few different options
that are available on the app module.
So there is app.setRepresentedFile.
It's actually not the one we want, so
we've got it, we're keeping track of it.
And then what we wanna do is, let's
start with setting the title, actually.
We've got that browser window.
We should probably take that as well.
So we can change the browserWindow too,
I think I want that to be the first
argument, just to keep it.
Cuz we should always have
one of those as well.
So we'll get browserWindow and
now I have to pass that in.
Luckily, TypeScript is gonna help me here,
so we'll pass the browserWindow in here.
And we'll pass it over here as well.
This is one of the reasons why I
made it a point to pass it through.
And again, if you have just one window,
you could just store it in
that top level scope as well.
But it is one of those things where should
you decide to have multiple windows
that you're storing them in, whether it
be an array, whether it be a hash map or
something like that, right?
No longer can you rely on a global.
And you can call it
a premature optimization, but
it's also not bothering anyone, and it
makes it a little bit easier to work with.
You just have to remember
to pass it through.
Cool, so now we've got,
we're setting the current file.
We can do set title, we'll call it.
We get a fun thing I'll
show you in a second,
which is Electron respects a few
extra properties in the package.json.
One of them, if we look in here that we'll
see, is we have this product name, right?
So you have the repo name or the module
name that you normally use in NPM.
But then Electron or Electron Forge in
particular respects this product name,
which is like what you actually want it to
show like as the actual name of the app.
When you are developing
right under the hood,
there is like a shell of an Electron
app and it's called Electron.
So that's what it shows the application
menu when it has the like macOS
bindings here, like Windows,
you don't see this menu at all.
But you can see this here when you
package the app instead of Electron,
it will say the name of your application,
right?
So you don't have to worry about like,
they open your app, it just says Electron,
it will show the name of the application.
As you're developing, it's kind of just
using a shell Electron app to like,
hold it, and that one is called Electron.
But the rest of the time,
you will, because you will see the actual
name of your app once you package it.
So that product name is then available for
you wherever you need as app.name,
which in this case will be firesale,
or if you change it to something else,
it will be something else.
So we can set that as well.
So we've got that in place,
and now we can also see like,
browserWindow, setRepresentedFilename,
right?
That is the one that we saw in the menu
bar up top where you can drag it,
you can see exactly where it
was stuff along those lines.
So that is like that's all you
really need to do is just tell it
where on the OS this file lives.
And then again,
I believe this is macOS specific and
like the nice part is if you have
IntelliSense like VS Code, and
you hover over a method name,
it says app platform is Darwin.
That means macOS only, some of them are
Linux only some of them are Windows only,
right?
It all depends on things that one OS
can do that the other one can't do.
The nice part is,
is you don't have to like,
be like if Darwin do this If it is Windows
or Linux just nothing happens, right?
And you don't necessarily
need to worry about it.
So now, we can set
the representative file name and
again this will happen when ever we
either open a file or save a file.
Which are right now the two ways that
we could literally set a new file,
like one could argue, could you drag and
drop in another file?
Sure, right?
The nice part is you
would just as you know,
you're kind of already
getting the sense here.
You'd send an IPC message back to
the renderer, you'd update these.
You probably open the file, right?
You'd probably trigger open file if they
dragged in a file because you won't have
the contents otherwise.
So these like abstractions, you can
kind of build on top of them in general.
Let's just see it in action because I
think like the ability to know the current
file and represent that in the window,
we should verify that that
is all working as expected.
So I'm gonna just give
that another start again.
And so we see firesale and
now I gotta open a file.
We'll see the context bridge one again.
And now you can see I see the full path.
Now node has a bunch of methods on
the path library if you just want the base
name or something along those lines, like
that's easy enough to do, we'll do it.
But now you can see I get this
representative file here and
if I like command, click on it,
you can see exactly where it is.
I can drag it, it looks,
it's beginning to look more and
more like a full like
macOS like application.
And again, you will still get the title.
If you're on Windows or Linux, you will
just also get this on macOS, and both will
begin to feel more and more like one of
these real like kind of files as well.
So we could just do like we can grab
from path we can also get base name and
just use that as well here, so
we can do basename for the filePath.
And now we'll give another shot.
Open a file.
And now we see just the file name.
So like whatever you're trying to go for,
you can get the like appropriate effect
here and show whichever one makes sense.
It's still the full file path when
we set the representative file.
So we can see that here as well.
The other thing we might choose to do
along the same time period is we can also,
and this will work across
all of the different,
all of the different operating systems.
It manifests itself differently, and
you'll know best is you can add it
to the recent documents list, right?
Now, the one thing I will warn you is if
you're just in development, it is going
to be, as you can see, my very mature
file names from previous runs of this.
It is like, because you're using that
Electron shell application in this case,
it is the same one that
you use repeatedly.
When you build it up for production,
obviously, then it bundles with the right
identifier, and stuff along those lines.
But out of the box, you will see stuff
from previous iterations of this as well,
but there are none of
them called manifesto.md.
So, let's go verify that that
does what we think it does.
Right, and we'll go ahead,
we open the file.
And now we should see it in here as well,
right?
And then it'll also show up in your like
recent documents where wherever recent
documents are found in your OS.
It registers with the OS as a document
that you have opened up recently and like,
you're getting that full, like file
system integration at this point, or
OS integration.
That like you would come to
expect in an application.
And again, like most of these things,
they are an attention to detail, and
you do need to tell electron like
the specifics of how this should work, but
the act of doing it is not very hard,
right?
You just need to know, like,
okay, we're doing, you know,
it's going to be a little
bit different for like,
if you build like an image resizing app,
or something along those lines, right?
Like another great example is if you just
wanted something that I can drag, drop,
upload to my S3 bucket, right?
You can whip something up
like that incredibly quickly.
The nuances of what
the representative file is and
how that works is gonna be different,
each one.
So yeah, you have to tell it.
But generally speaking,
once you have a sense of how that's
supposed to work,
it should be relatively easy to check.